---
title: Simple
date: 2016-08-17 08:58:28 Z
tags:
- design
layout: post
---

# Simple

A friend has hired me to help design an app which he is building. For the last couple of days, we've had a long conversation about what it means for something to be *simple*. We have differing opinions. For him, a simple design means the user can do less; there are roadblocks to certain actions which dissalows the user from inacting some actions. In this way, there are exponentially fewer moves a person can do in the app, which is, in a way, simpler.

From my perspective, the more roadblocks you put in a users way, the more complicated you’ve made the design. We’re creating an open playing field where users can add and subtract elements from an array of sections. To me, the simpler design is one that allows total user control over what gets added or deleted. While there are more possible permutations, the design is noninhibitive. If we add rules which say one section can’t be altered, then we’ve added, in my view, complications. The app becomes less simple.

I don’t agree with him, but I’m also not going to say he’s wrong. It’s a difference in perspective, one which is likely influenced by our roles in the project. Is his concept of *simple* in this case informed by his task of building it with code? Does *simple* in a design sense actually mean more work and greater code complexity (at least in this case)? 

The places between design and development can get thorny. I'm fascinated by these scenarios. There is a natural friction between what can be imagined and what can become reality. Additionaly, different perspectives shine different lights on different truths. I love untangling the issues which happen when these scenarios meet. 