---
layout: post
date: 2018-01-26 11:26:08
title: 
tags:
---

There is so much chatter about blogs, right now. It's great. What's not so great is how difficult it still is to post one's own website. On a laptop, with Jekyll and Github Pages, there isn't much friction, to be fair. But to blog with my iphone or ipad requires over-difficult hacks. That no one has built an app which can publish to a Jekyll blog via iOS is mind-boggling to me. There must be some kind of deep technical hurdle, right? It can't be because no one wants this app. I'd unquestionably pay $10+ for it. If it was truly well designed, I wouldn't balk at $20 or more. 

How I currently post to this blog: In my Macbook, I write a new post in Sublime Text, then commit with the Github Desktop app. I have a number of ways of auto-generating drafts with IFTTT which wind up in the drafts folder in Dropbox. If I 'like' an article in Instapaper, it generates a draft. If I add a tag to an article in Feedly, it generates a draft. With the iOS app Drafts, I use a workflow to send a note to my blog folder in Dropbox. I then go through these drafts occasionally to see if there's something to post. I don't do this with any real regularity, though I wish I would.

If it was easy to post to Jekyll on iOS, I'd probably post many times a day. I imagine it would work like this: when I'm on an article or tweet or anything shareable in iOS, I'd use the Share Sheet to send the link to a blogging app. Even better, it would copy over any text I had highlighted and format the post in markdown with a link and blockquote. From here, all I'd need to do would be to edit the link text in a post-friendly way, perhaps add a little commentary, then hit post.

If there are any developers out there interested in building this with me, I already have designs for this. This is something I've been thinking about for a couple years now and am so ready for it to exist. It really shouldn't be so hard to blog to your own website from the computers we all have in our pockets. Twitter and Facebook make it easy. It should be just as easy for those of us who care about the open web.