---
title: 12 42 27
date: 2016-09-23 16:35:00 Z
tags:
- Apple,
- Watch
---

September 13, 2015, I pick up my Apple Watch at the SoHo Apple store. September 13, 2016, Watch OS3 is released. I like the coincidence that my experience with the first version of the watch was an exact year. There's nothing important about this, nor any big take away. It just feels right.

Around January, after three months of wearing the watch, I began considering going back to my previous non-smart watch. It had lost its newness, had become just a thing. But I kept wearing it. 

When people asked me what I thought about it, I had a stock answer: ¯\_(ツ)_/¯. There was nothing *amazing* about it, but there were enough small benefits which I appreciated. I was tracking more steps. I have a year's worth of heart rate monitoring. I prefer a buzz on this wrist over the pocket vibration of the phone when a text comes in. It's often much nicer to control audio volume and other music/podcast stuff from the watch. The weather temperature on the watch is great. Setting timers on the watch for cooking is also a big plus. I've actually found it very convenient a few times to use Apple Pay from the watch.

All these things add up to something. I could do without any one of them. But taken all together, it gets harder to convince myself to actually do it. Plus, there are really no downsides to the watch. I can't think of a single reason *not* to wear it.

Now there's the Watch OS3 and the watch is even better. The UX design is what it should have been from the beginning. I never once used the contact ring from the side button. I'm glad that's gone. The easy swiping for changing faces is really useful. The Breath app, which reminds you to take a minute or two or three to meditate occasionally, is quite nice. I've taken to using it at least once a day.

Should you buy the watch? I'd say yes. But only if you like the way it looks on your wrist. It's still a bit clunky looking. And the newest hardware release didn't change. I've yet to see the watch on someone's wrist and thought it looked elegant. It's nerdy, no matter how hard they might have tried to make it otherwise. But it's nice. I like it, and expect to wear it another year.