---
layout: post
date: 2018-04-16 08:26:11
title: Music Playlists, Obsessively
tags: music, itunes
---

Music is a huge part of my life. I can't image a day ever goes by without listening to at least a few songs. I'd bet it's usually around 50 tracks a day. There's *so much* to listen to. Brand new releases. Recently discovered favorites. Old loves. Playlists by friends. Classic records to study.

I self-medicate with music. If I'm feeling an emotion particularly strongly, there's a good chance I'll gravitate towards a song which allows me to dwell deeper into the mood. A bright, shiney song makes a sunny day happier. A somber, sad song puts a punctiation on the meloncholy I might be feeling. Music is a drug. It's a religion. It's everything.

Frank Chimero has written about his highly dedicated process for [documenting his music listening](https://frankchimero.com/blog/2018/mvp-soundsystem/). I, too, have an addmittedly obsessive process for finding and organizing the new music I listen to and for keeping track of the songs I love. You wanna read about it? Of course you do.

Let's start with acknowledging that iTunes' star rating feature is key to the whole thing. To me, there's a big difference between a song I like, a song I love, and a song I consider to be absolute perfection. Itunes has always made this easy. They almost took it away at one point, people flipped out, and they put it back. I was on Spotify for awhile, but when they removed their rating feature, I left. Rdio never had it, and it was a sore spot for me when I used it. So I'm back on iTunes.

Here's how I'm currently marking the tracks I listen to:

- ♥︎: A good track. I like it. I want to be sure I never delete it. Other people probably like it and it could fit on a curated playlist at some point.
- ★★★: A really good track. There's something about the song which makes it better than most. I'll want to return to it occasionally, and there's a chance that someday it becomes a real favorite.
- ★★★★: One of the best songs. Undeniably good. Hard to skip when on shuffle. True songwriting mastery. Emotive as hell. 
- ★★★★★: I have a deep personal connection with the track. There's something about it which means a great deal to me. There are currently only 90 songs in this category, so you can see how exclusive this list is. 

What makes a five-star song rated higher than a four-star one is deeply personal. I guess I see four-star ratings as being more or less objectively good. Most music lovers would corroborate it's greatness. The five-star, though, gets to the heart of me. And some of these tracks are the weirdest. That's how true art is supposed to work.

The other iTunes feature I couldn't imagine living without is the smart playlist. It's currently only modifiable on the Mac, but I'm hoping someday they bring it to iOS. It's simply the best way to auto-currate exactly what you want to hear (if you've taken the trouble to heart and star your tracks).

I use three different systems for making playlist collections. The first is the most obvious. A smart playlist which collects my favorite tracks on any single artist. For example: All Blur tracks with a ★★★★ rating. Easy. Basic.



